# Existing Game Behavior
This document's purpose is to document the current game behavior (09/09/2022) in order to analyze and understand the steps that need to be taken next to add polish to the game.

## Car Behavior
The car can drive forward and backwards using the 'W' and 'S' keys, it looks like there's no way to turn the car unless you are moving forward or backwards. Ocassionally there is a sound effect when the car is speeding up in either direction. When jumping there is a sound effect when going up but no sound effect when landing. When the car is in the air, the rotation/tilt of it can be controlled. If you die while moving, the moving sound effect continues to play until you respawn. When hitting an enemy or getting hit, there is no indication that you have been hit or that the enemy has been hit. The health bar at the bottom is the only indicator. When shooting, the gun will lock on to the nearest enemy and when firing it will shoot that car. There doesn't seem to be very much feedback when it comes to shooting. There is a sound effect but that's about it. If no enemies are near, the car will shoot straight forward. There were certain points that I got stuck due to the cars controls.

## Game Loop
At the beginning of every level, there is an opening cutscene sequence that shows off the entire map. This is a nice touch but gets pretty annoying after the 3rd time you see it. The way the game progresses from the main menu is by selecting play, from there, every time you win a map, you progress to the next map. Every level I played seemed to have the same number of enemies that needed to be defeated, "3". There was very little challenge in playing through these levels and I beat them fairly quickly. When dying, a respawn UI timer pops up. At the end of the timer, the player respawns. When I was playing through the game, at one point the timer got stuck on 1 second and I had to quit out of the game. Each level has a timer that ticks down. When the timer reaches '0', a "You Failed" screen pops up. You can either return to the Main Menu or replay the level. When on the main menu, the music doesn't loop.

## Powerup Behavior
The game currently has 5 power ups. It seems like each power up has a static location where you can find it. There is no sound effect when picking up a powerup and there is no prompt as to what powerup you just picked up. The only powerup I was able to verify that worked was the health powerup. I wasn't sure what each power up did until I looked at the tutorial. Each powerup seems to blink as it hovers and moves in a circle. I thought the blinking meant that it was going to disappear, I think the blinking indicator is supposed to signal that it can be picked up. Personally I thought the blinking was a little annoying and made me think I couldn't pick it up when it wasn't there. I wasn't sure if each powerup expired or if it lasted a certain amount of time.

## Map Elements
Overall, the maps don't look too bad. The lighting might need to be reevaluated as in some levels the shadows/lighting looked weird (even with built lighting). There are currently 3 maps that are playable. These maps are day, night, and rain. It didn't seem like the rain level was working (there was no rain and the lighting was dark). As well, each level appears to have a different set of obstacles and different powerup locations. I found myself getting stuck on the night level (my car got stuck on the edge of an obstacle and the invisible wall). From the look of it, no texture seems to have a normal map attached to the texture. When playing the game, it's pretty aparent that there is nothing outside of the stadium. It looks pretty barren outside of the map. Maybe adding some static images onto 3D objects could make it look a little more immersive. On the night level I was expecting the lighting to come from the spot lights located at the top of the bleachers. I think spot lights like this could add a nice effect to the night level. 

## Game UI
Starting with the main menu, I'd say the main menu is very faithful to how the original deathdrome looks. The low resolution menu buttons and images look very good. During the gameplay, enemies, health, score, and lives are displayed using text. The text looks pretty good and fits with the deathdrome theme of the game. The text rests upon a blue background that's about 50% opacity. I'd say this all fits with the game. Though, the text isn't centered properly in certain spots. When winning or losing a level, a menu pops up prompting a retry or return to the main menu. These screens do not fit with the theme of the rest of the game. They stand out and look different than the rest of the UI. The pause menu also looks slightly different from the rest of the menus.

## Music
Overall the music fits at every point in the game. The day level has different music from the night level. The night level has the same music as the rain level. I wouldn't change anything about the music. It fits at every point of the game.
